.\" $Id$
.TH HXSETCREATEDIR 3 "October 1995" "NCSA HDF 4.0"
.TP
intn HXsetcreatedir(const char *dir)
.sp
.I dir
	IN: directory for creating the external file

.TP
Purpose
Set the directory variable for creating the external file of a new external element

.TP
Return value
Return SUCCEED if no error, else FAIL.

.TP
Description
HXsetcreatedir sets the directory variable for creating the external file 
according to \fIdir\fP.
The content of \fIdir\fP is copied into private memory of the
HDF library.
If \fIdir\fP is NULL, the directory variable is unset.
If HXsetcreatedir encounters any error, the directory variable
is not changed.

When a new external element is created (via functions HXcreate or
SDsetexternal),
the HDF library, by default, accesses the external
file just like the open(2) call.
(See HXcreate(3) for when a new
or an old file is opened.)
Users may override the default action by calling HXsetcreatedir()
or by defining the environment variable $HDFEXTCREATEDIR.
The HDF library will access the external file in the directory specified
by the above override.
The precedence is HXsetcreatedir, then $HDXEXTDIR, then just like open().

Note that the above override does not apply to absolute pathnames,
i.e., filenames starting with a slash (/).
HDF will access the absolute pathname without change.
Also note that HXsetcreatedir and $HDFEXTCREATEDIR are not symmetrical
to HXsetdir and $HDFEXTDIR.  The former pair permits only single directory
values and is used to compose the filename for access.  The
later pair permits multiple directory values which are used
for searching a presumably existing file.

.TP
Examples

Assuming the following,
.nf
	HXsetcreatedir("/DataVault/ProjectB")
	$HDFEXTCREATEDIR is "Mydata"
.fi

For each external filename on the left, HDF will open the file on the right, 
.sp
.TS
l l.
External Filename	HDF opens file

datadir/data001	/DataVault/ProjectB/datadir/data001
/usr/groupA/ProjectB/data001	/usr/groupA/ProjectB/data001
.TE



.TP
FORTRAN 
integer function hxscdir(dir)
.br
character*(*)	dir

