.\" $Id$
.TH HXSETDIR 3 "October 1995" "NCSA HDF 4.0"
.TP
intn HXsetdir(const char *dir)
.sp
.I dir
	IN: directory for locating an external file

.TP
Purpose
.br
Set the directory variable for locating an external file

.TP
Return value
Return SUCCEED if no error, else FAIL.

.TP
Description
HXsetdir sets the directory variable for locating an external file 
according to \fIdir\fP
which may contain multiple directories separated by colons (e.g.,
"dir1:dir2").
The content of \fIdir\fP is copied into private memory of the
HDF library.
If \fIdir\fP is NULL, the directory variable is unset.
If HXsetdir encounters any error, the directory variable
is not changed.

By default, the HDF library locates the external file just like the
open(2) call.
It also searches for the external file in the directories specified by the user
environment variable $HDFEXTDIR (if defined) and the directory
variable set by HXsetdir().
The searching precedence is directory variable (if set), then
$HDXEXTDIR, then just like open().

The searching differs if the external filename is an absolute pathname,
i.e., starting with a slash (/).
HDF will try open() first.  If open() fails and if 
$HDFEXTDIR is defined or the directory variable is set via HXsetdir(),
HDF will remove all directory components of the absolute pathname
(e.g., /usr/groupA/projectB/Data001 becomes Data001) and search
for that filename with the strategy noted in the above paragraph.

.TP
Examples

Assume the following files exist,
.nf
	/DataVault/ProjectB/datadir/data001.clean
	Mydata/datadir/data001
and
	HXsetdir("/DataVault/ProjectB")
	$HDFEXTDIR is "Mydata:Mydata/datadir"
.fi

For each external filename on the left, HDF will open the file on the right, 
.sp
.TS
l l.
External Filename	HDF opens file

datadir/data001	Mydata/datadir/data001
datadir/data001.clean	/DataVault/ProjectB/datadir/data001.clean
/usr/groupA/ProjectB/data001	Mydata/datadir/data001
.TE



.TP
FORTRAN
integer function hxsdir(dir)
.br
character*(*)   dir

