.TH "SDsetfillmode" 3 "24 January 1997"
.SH "NAME"
SDsetfillmode \- Set fill mode for a file which is 
opened for writing
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
#include "mfhdf.h"
.sp
extern intn SDsetfillmode
.br
(
.br
       int32 file_id,
       intn fillmode
.br
);
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.TP
.B "int32 file_id"
IN: the file whose fill mode is being set.
.TP
.B "intn fillmode"
IN: fill mode, SD_FILL or SD_NOFILL, defined in mfhdf.h. 
.br 
    SD_FILL -- datasets are pre-filled with fill 
               values, the default mode.
.br 
    SD_NOFILL -- no pre-filling for datasets.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
When a new fixed size SDS is created, by default the 
first SDwritedata() call will pre-fill the entire dataset 
with a user defined (via SDsetfillvalue) fill value 
or a default fill value, if there is no user-defined 
fill value. For SDSs with unlimited size of the slowest
changing dimension if the values to be written are beyond
the position where data has been written, by default
SDwritedata will fill the gap with user-defined or the default
fill value. The fill values will stay in their positions
until they are overwritten by user's data. 
If you are sure that all values of the datasets will be
written out completely before reading them back, there is 
no need to write the fill values. You can call 
SDsetfillmode() to set the file fill mode to SD_NOFILL.
This will stop the pre-filling and omit the duplicate writes
for each dataset, one for fill values and another one for 
actual values. For large datasets, this can improve the 
speed by almost 50%. 
.br
Note: 1. SDsetfillmode sets the file's fill mode, which  
      applies to all SDSs contained in this file. 
      2. If the file is closed and re-opened, its fill mode
      will be the default SD_FILL mode. 
.SH "RETURNS"
Returns the fill mode which the file was already in, if
successful. Otherwise, returns FAIL for errors. 
.SH "FORTRAN"
Integer function sfsflmd(file_id, fillmode)
.br
    Sets fill mode for the file
.br 
    integer file_id, fillmode
.br
    possible values for fillmode are: SD_FILL or SD_NOFILL,
    defined in hdf.inc. SD_FILL -- 0, SD_NOFILL -- 256.



