.\" $Id$
.TH VSFPACK 3 "June 1996" "NCSA HDF 4.0"
.ft B
#include <hdf.h>
.TP
intn 
.br
VSfpack(int32 vsid, intn packtype, char *fields_in_buf, 
.br
        VOIDP buf, intn bufsz, intn n_records, 
.br
        char *fields, VOIDP fldbufpt[])
.sp
.I  vsid
	IN: vdata id, returned from VSattach.
.I  packtype
        IN: _HDF_VSPACK(0) -- pack field values into 
.br
             vdata buf;
            _HDF_VSUNPACK(1) -- unpack vdata value into 
.br
              field buffers.
.nf
.I  fields_in_buf
        IN: fields in buf to write to or read from 
.br
            vdata. NULL stands for all fields in the 
.br
            vdata.
.I  buf
        IN: buffer for vdata values.
.I  bufsz
        IN: buffer size in bytes.
.I  n_records
        IN: number of records to pack or unpack.
.I  fields
        IN: names of the fields to be packed/unpacked. 
.br
            It may be a subset of fields_in_buf. 
.br
            NULL stands for all fields in buf.
.I  fldbufpt
        IN: array of pointers to field buffers.

.TP
Purpose
.br
VSfpack supplies a convenient way to pack or unpack 
values of several fields into or from a buffer.
.TP
Return value
Returns SUCCEED (0) if successful, FAIL (-1) otherwise.

.TP
Description

       The caller should supply the correct number of 
       field buffers, which should agree with the number 
       of fields to be packed/unpacked.
       When specifying _HDF_VSPACK, values of fields are 
       packed fully interlaced from field buffers into 
       the vdata buffer (buf); when specifying 
       _HDF_VSUNPACK, field values are unpacked from 
       the vdata buffer (buf) to field buffers. 
.sp 
       The caller must allocate enough space for 
       each buffer to hold correspondent
       data. For example, the vdata buffer should be
       at least equal to n_records*(total size of 
       all fields specified in fields_in_buf).
       Here, field size refers to the size of
       a field in memory, including order. 
.sp
       For packing the calling sequence should be:
          VSsetfields, VSfpack, and VSwrite;
       for unpacking it should be:
          VSsetfields, VSread, and VSfpack.
.sp
       When VSfpack is called to pack field values 
       into buf (the vdata buffer) fields_in_buf 
       should contain all fields of the vdata. NULL 
       can be used in C programs for fields_in_buf, 
       a blank character ' ' in FORTRAN programs. 
       When VSfpack is called to unpack field values,
       fields_in_buf may be a subset of all fields 
       of the vdata. 
.sp
       There are two Fortran versions for this routine: 
       vsfnpak and vsfcpak. Vsfnpak packs/unpacks a 
       numeric field and vsfcpak, a character type field.
       Note, vsfcpak() and vsfnpak() packs 1 field at 
       at time. 

.TP
C Examples
       A vdata has 3 fields:"Ident,Temp,Speed" with 
       data types char, float32, and int16 respectively.  
       This statement:
.sp
       stat = VSfpack(vdata_id, _HDF_VSUNPACK, NULL,
              vdatabuf, rec_size*NRECORDS, NRECORDS, 
              NULL, fld_buf_ptrs);
.sp
       will unpack NRECORDS of records from vdatabuf 
       into field buffers, whose addresses are stored 
       in fld_buf_ptrs. Vdatabuf contains all fields of
       the vdata and fld_buf_ptrs contains 3 pointers,
       each pointing to a field buffer.   

.TP
FORTRAN 
integer function vsfnpk(vs, packtype, buflds, buf, 
.br
                 bufsz, nrecs, pckfld, fldbuf)
    integer vs, packtype, buf, bufsz, nrecs, fldbuf
    character*(*) buflds, pckfld

integer function vsfcpk(vs, packtype, buflds, buf, 
.br
                 bufsz, nrecs, pckfld, fldbuf)
     integer vs, packtype, buf, bufsz, nrecs
     character*(*) buflds, pckfld, fldbuf

.TP
Fortran Examples
     Statement:

     ret = vsfnpak(vsid2, HDF_VSPACK,
     +       ' ', dbuf, 320*4, 5,'f_float32',fdata)

     packs field 'f_float32' into the vdata buffer 
     dbuf for 5 records. Dbuf contains all fields of 
     the vdata, set by vsfsfld(). Fdata contains data
     of field 'f_float32'. Field 'f_float32' is of 
     numeric data type.
.sp
     Statement:

     ret = vsfcpak(vsid2, HDF_VSPACK,
     +       ' ', dbuf, 320*4, 5,'f_char',cdata)

     packs field 'f_char' into the vdata buffer 
     dbuf for 5 records. Dbuf contains all fields of 
     the vdata, set by vsfsfld(). Cdata contains data
     of field 'f_char'. Field 'f_char' is of character
     data type.


.TP
See Also

