.TH NETCDF 3F "26 December 1990" "Printed: \n(yr.\n(mo.\n(dy" "UNIDATA LIBRARY FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
netcdf \- Unidata Network Common Data Form (netCDF) Fortran library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.na
.nh
.HP
INCLUDE 'netcdf.inc'
.HP 4
INTEGER FUNCTION NCCRE(PATHNAME, CMODE, RCODE)
.HP
INTEGER FUNCTION NCOPN(PATHNAME, RWMODE, RCODE)
.HP
SUBROUTINE NCCREDF(NCID, RCODE)
.HP
SUBROUTINE NCENDF(NCID, RCODE)
.HP
SUBROUTINE NCCLOS(NCID, RCODE)
.HP
SUBROUTINE NCINQ(NCID, NDIMS, NVARS, NATTS, RECDIM, RCODE)
.HP
SUBROUTINE NCSNC(NCID, RCODE)
.HP
SUBROUTINE NCABOR(NCID, RCODE)
.HP
SUBROUTINE NCDDEF(NCID, NAME, SIZE, RCODE)
.HP
INTEGER FUNCTION NCDID(NCID, NAME, RCODE)
.HP
SUBROUTINE NCDINQ(NCID, DIMID, NAME, SIZE, RCODE)
.HP
SUBROUTINE NCDREN(NCID, DIMID, NAME, RCODE)
.HP
INTEGER FUNCTION NCVDEF(NCID, NAME, DATATYPE, NDIMS, VDIMS, RCODE)
.HP
INTEGER FUNCTION NCVID(NCID, NAME, RCODE)
.HP
SUBROUTINE NCVINQ(NCID, VARID, NAME, DATATYPE, NDIMS, VDIMS, NATTS, RCODE)
.HP
SUBROUTINE NCVPT1(NCID, VARID, INDICES, VALUE, RCODE)
.HP
SUBROUTINE NCVP1C(NCID, VARID, INDICES, CHVAL, RCODE)
.HP
SUBROUTINE NCVGT1(NCID, VARID, INDICES, VALUE, RCODE)
.HP
SUBROUTINE NCVG1C(NCID, VARID, INDICES, CHVAL, RCODE)
.HP
SUBROUTINE NCVPT(NCID, VARID, START, COUNTS, VALUE, RCODE)
.HP
SUBROUTINE NCVPTC(NCID, VARID, START, COUNTS, STRING, LENSTR, RCODE)
.HP
SUBROUTINE NCVGT(NCID, VARID, START, COUNTS, VALUE, RCODE)
.HP
SUBROUTINE NCVGTC(NCID, VARID, START, COUNTS, STRING, LENSTR, RCODE)
.HP
SUBROUTINE NCVPTG(NCID, VARID, START, COUNTS, STRIDE, IMAP, VALUE, RCODE)
.HP
SUBROUTINE NCVPGC(NCID, VARID, START, COUNTS, STRIDE, IMAP, STRING, RCODE)
.HP
SUBROUTINE NCVGTG(NCID, VARID, START, COUNTS, STRIDE, IMAP, VALUE, RCODE)
.HP
SUBROUTINE NCVGGC(NCID, VARID, START, COUNTS, STRIDE, IMAP, STRING, RCODE)
.HP
SUBROUTINE NCVREN(NCID, VARID, NAME, RCODE)
.HP
SUBROUTINE NCAPT(NCID, VARID, NAME, DATATYPE, ATTLEN, VALUE, RCODE)
.HP
SUBROUTINE NCAPTC(NCID, VARID, NAME, DATATYPE, LENSTR, STRING, RCODE)
.HP
SUBROUTINE NCAINQ(NCID, VARID, NAME, DATATYPE, ATTLEN, RCODE)
.HP
SUBROUTINE NCAGT(NCID, VARID, NAME, VALUE, RCODE)
.HP
SUBROUTINE NCAGTC(NCID, VARID, NAME, STRING, LENSTR, RCODE)
.HP
SUBROUTINE NCACPY(INNCID, INVARID, NAME, OUTNCID, OUTVARID, RCODE)
.HP
SUBROUTINE NCANAM(NCID, VARID, ATTNUM, NAME, RCODE)
.HP
SUBROUTINE NCAREN(NCID, VARID, NAME, NEWNAME, RCODE)
.HP
SUBROUTINE NCADEL(NCID, VARID, NAME, RCODE)
.HP
INTEGER FUNCTION NCTLEN(DATATYPE, RCODE)
.HP
SUBROUTINE NCPOPT(NCOPTS)
.HP
SUBROUTINE NCGOPT(NCOPTS)
.hy
.LP
.ta \w'CHARACTER*(*) PATHNAME  'u
.nf
CHARACTER*(*) PATHNAME	! absolute or relative name of netCDF dataset
INTEGER CMODE	! either NCCLOB or NCNOCLOB
INTEGER RWMODE	! either NCWRITE or NCNOWRIT
INTEGER RCODE	! returned error code, 0 if no errors
INTEGER NCID	! netCDF ID, returned by NCCRE or NCOPN
INTEGER NDIMS	! number of dimensions in netCDF dataset or variable
INTEGER NVARS	! number of variables in netCDF dataset
INTEGER NATTS	! number of (global or variable) attributes
INTEGER RECDIM	! dimension ID of unlimited dimension
CHARACTER*(*) NAME	! name for dimension, attribute, or variable
INTEGER SIZE	! size of dimension
INTEGER DIMID	! dimension ID from NCDDEF or NCDID
INTEGER DATATYPE	! data type code, one of NCBYTE, ..., NCDOUBLE
INTEGER VARID	! variable ID from NCVDEF or NCVID, or NCGLOBAL
INTEGER INDICES(NDIMS)	! coordinates of a single element of a variable
CHARACTER CHVAL	! character value of variable or attribute
CHARACTER*(*) STRING	! character array value of variable or attribute
INTEGER LENSTR	! length of character array value
DOUBLE VALUE	! double precision value of variable or attribute
REAL VALUE	! real value of variable or attribute
INTEGER VALUE	! integer value of variable or attribute
INTEGER START(NDIMS)	! corner of hyperslab of values of a variable
INTEGER COUNTS(NDIMS)	! edge lengths of hyperslab of values
INTEGER STRIDE(NDIMS)	! netCDF variable subsampling intervals
INTEGER IMAP(NDIMS)	! hyperslab-to-memory index mapping vector
INTEGER ATTLEN	! number of elements in an attribute vector
INTEGER INNCID	! input netCDF ID
INTEGER INVARID	! input variable ID
INTEGER OUTNCID	! output netCDF ID
INTEGER OUTVARID	! output variable ID
INTEGER ATTNUM	! attribute number
CHARACTER*(*) NEWNAME	! new attribute name
INTEGER NCOPTS	! sum of NCVERBOS and/or NCFATAL
.fi
.ad
.SH "FUNCTION DESCRIPTIONS"
.LP
These routines implement the Unidata netCDF data-access interface for
the FORTRAN programming language.
Only those arguments which are unique to the function being described are 
documented in this section.  See the section "COMMON ARGUMENT DESCRIPTIONS"
for decriptions of the other arguments.
.HP 4
\fBINTEGER NCCRE(\fIPATHNAME\fB, \fICMODE\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
creates a new netCDF file, returning a netCDF ID that 
can subsequently be used to refer to the netCDF file.
The new netCDF file is placed in define mode.
The mode parameter, \fICMODE\fP,
should be either \fBNCCLOB\fP or \fBNCNOCLOB\fP.
\fBNCCLOB\fP means that even if the file already exists, you want to
create a new file with the same name, erasing the old file's contents.
\fBNCNOCLOB\fP means you want to create a new netCDF file only if the
given file name does not refer to a file that already exists.
.HP
\fBINTEGER NCOPN(\fIPATHNAME\fB, \fIRWMODE\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
opens an existing netCDF file for access.
The mode parameter, \fIRWMODE\fP, should be either
\fBNCWRITE\fP, to open the file for writing, or \fBNCNOWRIT\fP, to
open the file read-only.  "Writing" means any kind of change to the
file, including appending or changing data, adding or renaming dimensions,
variables, or attributes, or deleting attributes.
.HP
\fBSUBROUTINE NCCREDF(\fINCID\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
puts an open netCDF file into define mode, 
so dimensions, variables, and attributes can be added or renamed and 
attributes can be deleted.
.HP
\fBSUBROUTINE NCENDF(\fINCID\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
takes an open netCDF file out of define mode.
The changes made to the netCDF file
while it was in define mode are checked and committed to disk if no
problems occurred.  The netCDF file is then placed in data mode, so
variable data can be read or written.
.HP
\fBSUBROUTINE NCCLOS(\fINCID\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
closes an open netCDF file.
If the file is in define mode, \fBNCENDF(\|)\fP
will be called before closing.
(In this case, if
\fBNCENDF(\|)\fP returns an error, \fBNCABOR(\|)\fP
will automatically be called to restore the file to the
consistent state before define mode was last entered.)  
After an open netCDF file is closed, its netCDF ID will be reassigned to 
the next netCDF file that is opened or created.
.HP
\fBSUBROUTINE NCINQ(\fINCID\fB, \fINDIMS\fB, \fINVARS\fB, \fINATTS\fB, \fIRECDIM\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
returns information about an open netCDF file.
Upon successful return,
\fINVARS\fP will contain the
number of variables defined for this netCDF file,
\fIRECDIM\fP will contain the
ID of the unlimited dimension, if there is one for this netCDF
file (if no unlimited size dimension has been defined, -1 is returned
for the value of \fIRECDIM\fP).
.HP
\fBSUBROUTINE NCSNC(\fINCID\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
updates a writable netCDF file.
The netCDF file must be in data mode.
A netCDF file in define mode is synchronized
to disk only when \fBNCENDF(\|)\fP is called.
It can be expensive in computer resources to always synchronize to disk after
every write of variable data or change of an attribute value.  There are two
reasons you might want to synchronize after writes: 1) to minimize data 
loss in case of abnormal termination; and 2) to make data available to other
processes for reading immediately after it is written.
Data is automatically synchronized to disk when a netCDF file is closed,
or whenever you leave define mode.
.HP
\fBSUBROUTINE NCABOR(\fINCID\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
closes or deletes a netCDF file.
If the netCDF file isn't in define mode, then the file is closed.
If the file is being created and is still in define mode, the file is deleted.
If define mode was entered by a call to \fBNCCREDF(\|)\fP,
the netCDF file is restored to its state before definition mode was entered 
and the file is closed.
The main reason for calling \fBNCABOR(\|)\fP
is to restore the netCDF to a known consistent state in
case anything goes wrong during the definition of new dimensions,
variables, or attributes.
This function is called automatically if \fBNCCLOS(\|)\fP
is called from define mode and the call to leave define
mode before closing fails.
.HP
\fBSUBROUTINE NCDDEF(\fINCID\fB, \fINAME\fB, \fISIZE\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
adds a new dimension to an open netCDF file, which must be 
in define mode.
.HP
\fBINTEGER NCDID(\fINCID\fB, \fINAME\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
returns the ID of a netCDF dimension, given the name of the dimension.
.HP
\fBSUBROUTINE NCDINQ(\fINCID\fB, \fIDIMID\fB, \fINAME\fB, \fISIZE\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
returns the name and size of a dimension, given its ID.
.HP
\fBSUBROUTINE NCDREN(\fINCID\fB, \fIDIMID\fB, \fINAME\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
renames an existing dimension in an open netCDF file.
If the new name is longer than the old name, the netCDF must be in 
define mode.
You cannot rename a dimension to have the same name as another dimension.
.HP
\fBINTEGER NCVDEF(\fINCID\fB, \fINAME\fB, \fIDATATYPE\fB, \fINDIMS\fB, \fIVDIMS\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
adds a new variable to an open netCDF file in define mode.
It returns a variable ID.
.HP
\fBINTEGER NCVID(\fINCID\fB, \fINAME\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
returns the ID of a netCDF variable, given its name.
.HP
\fBSUBROUTINE NCVINQ(\fINCID\fB, \fIVARID\fB, \fINAME\fB, \fIDATATYPE\fB, \fINDIMS\fB, \fIVDIMS\fB, \fINATTS\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
returns information about a netCDF variable, given its ID.
.HP
\fBSUBROUTINE NCVPT1(\fINCID\fB, \fIVARID\fB, \fIINDICES\fB, \fIVALUE\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
puts a single, numeric data value into a numeric variable of an open netCDF 
file that is in data mode.
.HP
\fBSUBROUTINE NCVP1C(\fINCID\fB, \fIVARID\fB, \fIINDICES\fB, \fICHVAL\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
puts a single, character value into a character variable of an open netCDF 
file that is in data mode.
.HP
\fBSUBROUTINE NCVGT1(\fINCID\fB, \fIVARID\fB, \fIINDICES\fB, \fIVALUE\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
gets a single, numeric data value from a numeric variable of an open netCDF 
file that is in data mode.
.HP
\fBSUBROUTINE NCVG1C(\fINCID\fB, \fIVARID\fB, \fIINDICES\fB, \fICHVAL\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
gets a single, character value from a character variable of an open netCDF 
file that is in data mode.
.HP
\fBSUBROUTINE NCVPT(\fINCID\fB, \fIVARID\fB, \fISTART\fB, \fICOUNT\fB, \fIVALUE\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
writes a hyperslab of numeric values into a numeric netCDF variable of an open
netCDF file, which must be in data mode.
.HP
\fBSUBROUTINE NCVPTC(\fINCID\fB, \fIVARID\fB, \fISTART\fB, \fICOUNT\fB, \fISTRING\fB, \fILENSTR\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
writes a hyperslab of character values into a character netCDF variable of 
an open netCDF file, which must be in data mode.
.HP
\fBSUBROUTINE NCVGT(\fINCID\fB, \fIVARID\fB, \fISTART\fB, \fICOUNT\fB, \fIVALUE\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
reads a hyperslab of numeric values from a numeric netCDF variable of an open
netCDF file, which must be in data mode.
.HP
\fBSUBROUTINE NCVGTC(\fINCID\fB, \fIVARID\fB, \fISTART\fB, \fICOUNT\fB, \fISTRING\fB, \fILENSTR\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
reads a hyperslab of character values from a character netCDF variable of 
an open netCDF file, which must be in data mode.
.HP
\fBSUBROUTINE NCVPTG(\fINCID\fB, \fIVARID\fB, \fISTART\fB, \fICOUNT\fB, \fISTRIDE\fB, \fIIMAP\fB, \fIVALUE\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
writes a generalized hyperslab of numeric values into a numeric netCDF 
variable of an open netCDF file, which must be in data mode.
.HP
\fBSUBROUTINE NCVPGC(\fINCID\fB, \fIVARID\fB, \fISTART\fB, \fICOUNT\fB, \fISTRIDE\fB, \fIIMAP\fB, \fISTRING\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
writes a generalized hyperslab of character values into a character netCDF 
variable of an open netCDF file, which must be in data mode.
.HP
\fBSUBROUTINE NCVGTG(\fINCID\fB, \fIVARID\fB, \fISTART\fB, \fICOUNT\fB, \fISTRIDE\fB, \fIIMAP\fB, \fIVALUE\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
reads a generalized hyperslab of numeric values from a numeric netCDF 
variable of an open netCDF file, which must be in data mode.
.HP
\fBSUBROUTINE NCVGGC(\fINCID\fB, \fIVARID\fB, \fISTART\fB, \fICOUNT\fB, \fISTRIDE\fB, \fIIMAP\fB, \fISTRING\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
reads a generalized hyperslab of character values from a character netCDF 
variable of an open netCDF file, which must be in data mode.
.HP
\fBSUBROUTINE NCVREN(\fINCID\fB, \fIVARID\fB, \fINAME\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
changes the name of a netCDF variable in an open netCDF.
If the new name is longer than the old name, the netCDF must be in define mode.
You cannot rename a variable to have the name of any existing variable.
.HP
\fBSUBROUTINE NCAPT(\fINCID\fB, \fIVARID\fB, \fINAME\fB, \fIDATATYPE\fB, \fIATTLEN\fB, \fIVALUE\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
adds or changes a numeric variable attribute or global numeric attribute of an
open netCDF file.  If this attribute is new, or if the space required to
store the attribute is greater than before, the netCDF file must be in
define mode.
.HP
\fBSUBROUTINE NCAPTC(\fINCID\fB, \fIVARID\fB, \fINAME\fB, \fIDATATYPE\fB, \fILENSTR\fB, \fISTRING\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
adds or changes a character variable attribute or global 
character attribute of an
open netCDF file.  If this attribute is new, or if the space required to
store the attribute is greater than before, the netCDF file must be in
define mode.
.HP
\fBSUBROUTINE NCAINQ(\fINCID\fB, \fIVARID\fB, \fINAME\fB, \fIDATATYPE\fB, \fIATTLEN\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
returns
information about a netCDF attribute, given its variable ID and name.
The information returned is the type and length of the attribute.
.HP
\fBSUBROUTINE NCAGT(\fINCID\fB, \fIVARID\fB, \fINAME\fB, \fIVALUE\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
gets the value(s) of a numeric netCDF attribute, given its
variable ID and name.
.HP
\fBSUBROUTINE NCAGTC(\fINCID\fB, \fIVARID\fB, \fINAME\fB, \fISTRING\fB, \fILENSTR\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
gets the value of a character netCDF attribute, given its
variable ID and name.
.HP
\fBSUBROUTINE NCACPY(\fIINNCID\fB, \fIINVARID\fB, \fINAME\fB, \fIOUTNCID\fB, \fIOUTVARID\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
copies an
attribute from one open netCDF file to another.  It can also be used to
copy an attribute from one variable to another within the same netCDF.
\fIINNCID\fP is the netCDF ID of an input netCDF file from which the
attribute will be copied, returned from a previous, successful call to
\fBNCOPN(\|)\fP or \fBNCCRE(\|)\fP.
\fIINVARID\fP
is the ID of the variable in the input netCDF file from which the
attribute will be copied, or \fBNCGLOBAL\fP for a global attribute.
\fINAME\fP
is the name of the attribute in the input netCDF file to be copied.
\fIOUTNCID\fP
is the netCDF ID of the output netCDF file to which the attribute will be 
copied,
returned from a previous call to \fBNCOPN(\|)\fP or \fBNCCRE(\|)\fP.  It
is permissible for the input and output netCDF IDs to be the same.  The
output netCDF file should be in define mode if the attribute to be
copied does not already exist for the target variable, or if it would
cause an existing target attribute to grow.
\fIOUTVARID\fP
is the ID of the variable in the output netCDF file to which the attribute will
be copied, or \fBNCGLOBAL\fP to copy to a global attribute.
.HP
\fBSUBROUTINE NCANAM(\fINCID\fB, \fIVARID\fB, \fIATTNUM\fB, \fINAME\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
gets the
name of an attribute, given its variable ID and number as an attribute
of that variable.  This function is useful in generic applications that
need to get the names of all the attributes associated with a variable,
since attributes are accessed by name rather than number in all other
attribute functions.  The number of an attribute is more volatile than
the name, since it can change when other attributes of the same variable
are deleted.  This is why an attribute number is not called an attribute
ID.
global attribute.
\fIATTNUM\fP
is the number of the attribute.  The attributes for each variable are numbered
from 1 (the first attribute) to \fINATTS\fP, where \fINATTS\fP is
the number of attributes for the variable, as returned from a call to
\fBNCVINQ(\|)\fP.
.HP
\fBSUBROUTINE NCAREN(\fINCID\fB, \fIVARID\fB, \fINAME\fB, \fINEWNAME\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
changes the
name of an attribute.  If the new name is longer than the original name,
the netCDF must be in define mode.  You cannot rename an attribute to
have the same name as another attribute of the same variable.
\fINAME\fP
is the original attribute name.
\fINEWNAME\fP
is the new name to be assigned to the specified attribute.  If the new name
is longer than the old name, the netCDF file must be in define mode.
.HP
\fBSUBROUTINE NCADEL(\fINCID\fB, \fIVARID\fB, \fINAME\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
deletes a
netCDF attribute from an open netCDF file.  The netCDF file must be in
define mode.
.HP
\fBINTEGER NCTLEN(\fIDATATYPE\fB, \fIRCODE\fB)\fR
.br
returns the number of bytes in a netCDF data type.
.HP
\fBSUBROUTINE NCPOPT(\fINCOPTS\fB)\fR
.br
sets the error-options for the netCDF library.
.HP
\fBSUBROUTINE NCGOPT(\fINCOPTS\fB)\fR
.br
returns the current error-options of the netCDF library.
.SH "COMMON ARGUMENT DESCRIPTIONS"
.TP 4
.BI "INTEGER " ATTLEN
is the number of values associated with an attribute.
If the attribute is of type \fBNCCHAR\fP, then this is the character variable 
length.
.TP
.BI "INTEGER " NCID
is the netCDF ID returned from a previous, successful call to
\fBncopn(\|)\fP or \fBnccre(\|)\fP.
.TP
.BI "CHARACTER*1 " CHVAL
is the character value to be written into or read from and must be of 
type \fBNCCHAR\fP.
*Warning*: neither the compiler nor the netCDF  software  can
detect if the wrong type of data is used.
.TP
.BI "INTEGER " COUNTS(NDIMS)
specifies the number of data values to be accessed in terms of the 
lengths of the sides of the hyperslab.
Thus, to access a single value, for example, specify \fIcounts\fP as
\fB(1, 1, ..., 1)\fP.
The size of the vector shall be at least the rank of the associated
netCDF variable and its elements shall correspond, in order, to the
variable's dimensions.
Consequently, if the variable is a record variable, then the last
element of \fIcounts\fP is the number of records to access.
.TP
.BI "INTEGER " DATATYPE
specifies the data type of a netCDF variable and is one of the predefined 
parameters \fBNCBYTE\fP, \fBNCCHAR\fP, \fBNCSHORT\fP, \fBNCLONG\fP, 
\fBNCFLOAT\fP, or \fBNCDOUBLE\fP.
.TP
.BI "INTEGER " DIMID
is the ID of a netCDF dimension.
netCDF dimension ID's are allocated sequentially from the positive
integers beginning with 1.
.TP
.BI "INTEGER " IMAP(NDIMS)
is the index mapping vector that specifies how data values associated with a 
netCDF variable are arranged in memory.
The offset, in bytes, from the memory location pointed to by the \fIVALUE\fP
or \fISTRING\fP
argument to a particular datum is given by the
inner (dot) product of the index mapping vector with the coordinates of 
the datum specified as offsets from the hyperslab corner.
For example,
on a machine where the size of a `\fBREAL\fP' is four bytes,
the index mapping vector for the array `\fBREAL U(5,3)\fP' is 
`\fBINTEGER IMAP(2) /4, 20/\fP'.
Note that the index mapping vector can be
used to access memory-resident data values in a manner that differs 
radically from the nominal structure of the associated netCDF variable.
For example, the following definitions
.sp
.RS +8
.nf
REAL VEL(2,NY,NX)
INTEGER IMAP(2)
IMAP(2) = 2*4
IMAP(1) = IMAP(2)*NY
.fi
.RE
.sp
.TP
\&
can be used to access the memory-resident values of the netCDF variable,
`\fBU(NX,NY)\fP' (in FORTRAN array notation)  even
though the dimensions are transposed and the data is contained in a 3-D array
rather than a 2-D array.
The index mapping vector may contain negative values if the
\fIVALUE\fP or \fISTRING\fP argument is appropriately set.
A scalar `\fB0\fP' as the index mapping vector argument obtains the 
default behavior in
which the memory-resident values are assumed to have the same structure as the 
associated netCDF variable.
.TP
.BI "INTEGER " INDICES(NDIMS)
specifies the indicial coordinates of the single netCDF data value to be 
accessed.
The indices are relative to 1; thus, for example, the first data value of a
two-dimensional variable is \fB(1,1)\fP.
The size of the vector shall be at least the rank of the associated
netCDF variable and its elements shall correspond, in order, to the
variable's dimensions.
Consequently, if the variable is a record variable, then the last
index is the record number.
.TP
.BI "INTEGER " LENSTR
specifies the total size, in characters, of the \fISTRING\fP argument.
.TP
.BI "CHARACTER*(*) " NAME
is the name of a dimension, variable, or attribute.
It shall begin with an alphabetic character, followed by
zero or more alphanumeric characters including the underscore
(`_').  Case is significant.
As an output argument, it 
shall be capacious enough to hold the requested string (the maximum supported
length is given by the predefined parameter MAXNCNAME).
Attribute names that begin with an underscore (`\fB_\fP') are reserved for use
by the netCDF interface.
.TP
.BI "INTEGER " NATTS
is the number of global attributes in a netCDF dataset for the
\fBNCINQ(\|)\fP subroutine or the number
of attributes associated with a netCDF variable for the \fBNCVINQ(\|)\fP
subroutine.
.TP
.BI "INTEGER " NCOPTS
specifies the handling of errors by the netCDF library.
It is  zero  or  the  sum  of one or more of the error
parameters defined in the FORTRAN include file.
Valid  values
are  `\fBNCVERBOS\fP',  to  enable  error-messaging, and `\fBNCFATAL\fP', to
cause a program abort when an  error  occurs.
The  default condition is equivalent to `\fBNCVERBOS+NCFATAL\fP'.
.TP
.BI "INTEGER " NDIMS
is either the total number of dimensions in a netCDF dataset or the rank
(i.e. the number of dimensions) of a netCDF variable.
The value shall not be negative or greater than the parameter
`\fBMAXVDIMS\fP'.
.TP
.BI "CHARACTER*(*) " PATHNAME
is the pathname of a netCDF file.  It may be absolute or relative.
.TP
.BI "INTEGER " RCODE
is the returned error code; it is set to 0 if and only if no error occurred.
.TP
.BI "INTEGER " SIZE
is the size of a netCDF dimension.
As an input argument, it shall be a positive integer or the parameter
`\fBNCUNLIM\fP'.
At most one such unlimited size dimension, called the record dimension,
shall be defined in a netCDF dataset.
As an output argument, it shall be a positive integer.
.TP
.BI "INTEGER " START(NDIMS)
specifies the starting point
for accessing a netCDF variable's data values
in terms of the indicial coordinates of 
the corner of the hyperslab.
The indices are relative to 1; thus, the first data
value of a variable is \fB(1, 1, ..., 1)\fP.
The size of the vector shall be at least the rank of the associated
netCDF variable and its elements shall correspond, in order, to the
variable's dimensions.
Consequently, if the variable is a record variable, then the last index 
is the starting record number for accessing the netCDF variable's data values.
.TP
.BI "INTEGER " STRIDE(NDIMS)
specifies, for each dimension,
the interval between the accessed values of a netCDF variable.
The size of the vector shall be at least the rank of the associated
netCDF variable and its elements shall correspond, in order, to the
variable's dimensions.
A value of 1 accesses adjacent values of the netCDF variable 
in the corresponding dimension;
a value of 2 accesses every other value of the netCDF variable in the
corresponding dimension; and so on.
Attempting to access a data value that lies outside the defined data space
of a variable is an error.
A scalar `\fB0\fP' as the stride argument obtains the default behavior in which
adjacent values are accessed along each dimension.
.TP
.BI "CHARACTER*(*) " STRING
is the block of character values to be accessed for a netCDF 
variable or attribute.
.TP
.BI "INTEGER, REAL, or DOUBLE " VALUE
is the start of the memory-resident data values to be accessed.
The data should be of the appropriate type for the netCDF variable.
\fB*Warning*: neither the compiler nor the netCDF software
can detect if the wrong type of data is used.\fP
.TP
.BI "INTEGER " VARID
is the ID of a netCDF variable or (for the attribute-access functions) 
the parameter \fBNCGLOBAL\fP,
which is used to reference global attributes.
netCDF variable ID's are allocated sequentially from the positive
integers beginning with 1.
.TP
.BI "INTEGER " VDIMS(NDIMS)
is a vector of dimension ID's and defines the shape of a netCDF variable.
The size of the vector shall be greater than or equal to the
rank (i.e. the number of dimensions) of the variable (\fINDIMS\fP).
The vector shall be ordered by the speed with which a dimension varies:
\fIVDIMS\fP(1) shall be the dimension ID of the most rapidly
varying dimension and
\fIVDIMS\fP(\fINDIMS\fP) shall be the dimension ID of the most slowly
varying dimension.
Consequently, if a variable is a record variable, then 
\fIVDIMS\fP(\fINDIMS\fP) 
shall be the dimension ID of the record dimension.
The maximum possible number of
dimensions for a variable is given by the parameter
`\fBMAXVDIMS\fP'.
.SH "MAILING-LIST"
.LP
Both a mailing list and a digest are 
available for
discussion of the netCDF interface and announcements about netCDF bugs,
fixes, and enhancements.
To subscribe, send a request to one of the following:
.sp
.RS +4
.ta \w'mailing list:   'u
.nf
mailing\ list:	netcdfgroup-request@unidata.ucar.edu
digest:	netcdfdigest-request@unidata.ucar.edu
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ncdump (1),
.BR ncgen (1),
.BR netcdf (3).
.LP
\fInetCDF User's Guide\fP, published
by the Unidata Program Center, University Corporation for Atmospheric
Research, located in Boulder, Colorado.
